New README (#4)
ferrous-systems/teaching-material: README.adoc

Ferrous Systems offers our training material under MIT/Apache-2.0
license for source code (examples and exercises) and Creative Commons (CC-BY-SA) for textual
content.

Custom course material developed on request, including any provided examples or exercises, will be delivered directly as part of the training.
you.

== Trainer staff

The Ferrous Systems training staff consists of multiple Rust project
maintainers and domain experts, active in multiple working groups. This
makes sure our trainers are always up to speed on new developments and
can give current and authoritive answers.

Among those are:

* Florian Gilcher: Training Rust since 2015. Over 30 trainings, most for
large enterprises. Rust core team member and community team manager.
Broad knowledge about all aspects of Rust, with special knowledge on
network and async/concurrent programming.
* James Munns: Training Rust since 2017. Focus on general Rust and
small/embedded systems. Member of the Embedded Working Group Core Team.
Great knowledge of integrating Rust with C codebases.
* Aleksey Kladov: Training Rust since 2018 in academic and enterprise
settings. Member of the Rust tools team. Author of the rust-analyzer IDE.

> Very broad and exact knowledge of the language and its tooling,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributor to Cargo. Very broad and exact knowledge of the language and its tooling.
```

> especially focused on debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The material is created with people with zero Rust experience but with a programming background in mind.

Ferrous Systems offers a large Rust curriculum for both beginner and
advanced Rust developer at all levels. We are the oldest and most often

> chosen Rust training provider.

Author: Removed it.

> Ferrous Systems specialises in custom, topic focused workshops for

Author: What's your preference, I generally spell british.

> Ferrous Systems specialises in custom, topic focused workshops for

Reviewer 2: I generally prefer american english, out of habit :)

But in general, I prefer consistency to one or the other.

> Ferrous Systems specialises in custom, topic focused workshops for

Author: I'm going to change it for US.

> enterprises starting moving into Rust. Supplemental to our courses, we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enterprises starting or expanding their use of Rust. Supplemental to our courses, we
```

> offer ongoing help and feedback.

Reviewer 2: Link to Rust-Experts?

Author: If it's folded into a course offering, I would generally prefer to not mingle brands.

Overview
--------

The materials are presented as a set of small, self-contained lessons on a specific topic.

> Note that lessons might be taken down when deemed outdated and recreated for new audiences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that lessons might be revised, extended, or removed, when necessary to keep material up to date or relevant to new audiences.
```

Lessons can be arranged into courses exploring various aspects of Rust.

Pricing
~~~~~~~

> Ferrous Systems usually charges per trainer day. That allows for easy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ferrous Systems charges on a per-trainer-per-day basis. That allows for easy
```

> calculation on one-off trainings and a fair and easy discussion about

Reviewer 2: This paragraph seems to exist to justify our pricing scheme, which I don't think is necessary.

I would replace with something like:

> For standard trainings, Ferrous Systems charges on a per-trainer-per-day basis. Quotations for custom trainings are available on request.

Author: Applied manually.

the structure of the course. Other agreements are possible. For example,
that allows clients to quickly change the setup of the group, e.g. by
adding a person, without changing the contractual setup.

We offer training on any Rust subject and will create material that we
deem resuable at no cost for the client.

> We also offer training directly on clients products, against a fee to

Reviewer 2: I suggest rewording to:

> We can also tailor training material to be directly relevant for customer's products or domain areas. Please contact us for a quotation for customized training material.

Author: Applied manually.

produce the material.

> Group setup

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if the first and last paragraphs of this section are helpful for our customers to understand our offerings. Perhaps remove paragraph one, and replace paragraph three with:

> When selecting groups for training, we recommend that participants have a similar experience level in Rust, and similar goals for using the language when possible. We are experienced with training developers from a wide range of backgrounds and experience levels, and can design a training suitable for your team.

Author: Applied manually.

~~~~~~~~~~~

Mixed backgrounds allow facilitating discussions within a group about
approaches and techniques. A similar experience level allows the trainer
to form better assumptions about what is already understood and what
not.

Ferrous Systems recommends a trainer per 6 attendees for full trainer
bandwidth. If possible, we recommend opting for groups of at least 12,
to efficiently allow for 2 trainers.

We have experiences with both groups of mixed and uniform backgrounds
and mixed skill levels. We generally recommend groups of mixed
backgrounds and similar experience levels.

Training material
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Ferrous Systems offers their training material under MIT/Apache-2.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ferrous Systems offers our training material under MIT/Apache-2.0
```

> license for source code and Creative Commons (CC-BY-SA) for textual

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
license for source code (examples and exercises) and Creative Commons (CC-BY-SA) for textual
```

content.

> Course material specifically constructed for you will be proprietary to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom course material developed on request, including any provided examples or exercises, will be delivered directly as part of the training.
```

you.

Trainer staff
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The Ferrous Systems trainer staff consists of multiple Rust project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Ferrous Systems training staff consists of multiple Rust project
```

maintainers and domain experts, active in multiple working groups. This
makes sure our trainers are always up to speed on new developments and
can give current and authoritive answers.

Among those are:

* Florian Gilcher: Training Rust since 2015. Over 30 trainings, most for
large enterprises. Rust core team member and community team manager.
Broad knowledge about all aspects of Rust, with special knowledge on
network and async/concurrent programming.

> * James Munns: Training Rust since 2018. Focus on general Rust and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* James Munns: Training Rust since 2017. Focus on general Rust and
```

small/embedded systems. Member of the Embedded Working Group Core Team.
Great knowledge of integrating Rust with C codebases.
* Aleksey Kladov: Training Rust since 2018 in academic and enterprise

> setting. Member of the Rust tools team. Author of the rust-analyzer IDE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
settings. Member of the Rust tools team. Author of the rust-analyzer IDE.
```

Very broad and exact knowledge of the language and its tooling,
especially focused on debugging.
* Jonas Schievek: Training Rust since 2019. Focus on general Rust and
multiple architectures. Contributor to the Rust compiler. Great
knowledge of compilation details and performance concerns.
* Tanks Transfeld: Training Rust since 2018. Focus on general Rust and
Rust for beginners. Part of several Rust learning projects. All Rust
subjects, from async to bare metal. Great knowledge around beginners
concerns and how to get started.

> Ferrous Systems can also collaborate with local trainers in Europe, US,

Reviewer 2: We can probably also throw Canada on the list, or generalize to "North America".

Author: Added

Courses will be tailored to the clients needs during an interview before
the event. This interview should happen as early as possible.

Specifically courses for companies in a transformation towards using
Rust will be tailored to the companies core subjects.

The ``three days'' core
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ferrous Systems builds its core course around a _base course_ of three
days. This course consists of introduction into shared Rust subjects
plus application in _one_ domain. Three days gives enough time to focus
on this domain for at least one day, plus enough time to answer
questions coming up from the audience.

After a three days course, attendees will have a solid knowledge in
Rusts core concepts, especially Ownership and Borrowing. They will also
have the core skills necessary for efficient self-guided learning.

Variations
^^^^^^^^^^

Variations of the course, such as a shorter or a longer version are
available.

``Three days'' overview
+++++++++++++++++++++++

A course that focuses more on an ecosystem overview over a detailed core
subject. It may cover up to 4 topics.

Attendees may not become productive in all areas, but get a good feeling
for them.

> This course is perfect for engineering management, that will most likely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This course is perfect for engineering management that will most likely
```

not end up using Rust daily, but needs broad knowledge to assess Rust as
a technology. It is also frequently given in academic settings.

5 days
^^^^^^

The longer versions covers similar subjects as above, but in more

> detail. This allows e.g. the construction of a larger piece of software

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
detail. This allows for exercises such as the construction of a larger piece of software
```

in the training group collaboratively.

These courses are recommended for people that are intended to be

> multipliers in your organisation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
multipliers in your organisation, teaching or leading other teams using Rust.
```

After 5 days, attendees will have solid knowledge in a topical domain
and full productivity.

2 days
^^^^^^

A condensed version of the three days course. Detailed topic deep dives
will be reduced and some self-guided exercises reduced to ``code along''
sessions.

2,4 and 8 hours topic tasters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Taster sessions that favor experiences over solid knowledge and get
people excited.

> Perfect for conferences and internal all-hands to expand peoples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Perfect for conferences and internal all-hands to expand people's
```

horizons.

Advanced courses
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Advanced courses deepen a Rust subject and are indended for groups that

> already visited a course before. They quickly refreshen core knowledge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have already attended a course previously. They quickly refresh core knowledge
```

> and then add a topical deep dive on topic. Advanced courses also differ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and then add a specific deep dive on topic. Advanced courses also differ
```

from base courses in that they include a number facilitated discussions
for attendees to share their experience.

Advanced courses are tailored like base courses to the need of the
group. For example, an basic course for for asynchronous programming

> explains how concurrent execution in Rust works, the advanced one may

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
explains how concurrent execution in Rust works, while the advanced one may
```

include writing your own execution engine.

Topics
------

Ferrous Systems offers Rust courses for a wide variety of subjects. The
following is a non-exhaustive list of subjects.

Every subject with be taught with hands-on exercises.

Core topics
~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the core component of the course. In this course, attendees will
learn:

* Ownership
* Borrowing
* Lifetimes
* Working with memory and data structures
* Control flow
* Structuring of applications
* Using and configuring cargo and rustup
* Introducing Rust into existing products
* General Rust patterns
* Error Handling
* Using Generic APIs
* Using Rusts guarantees for security gains
* Testing and Debugging
* Documentation tooling
* Basics of concurrency safety
* Overview of important documentation
* Overview the standard library, especially core interface like
collections, input/output and networking
* Overview of common libraries
* ``Refactoring towards Speed'': a core technique to safely derive a
fast program from a working program

Exercises will be tailored to the chosen special subjects.

Advanced Generic Programming in Rust
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Using libraries with generics in Rust is taught in the core course. When

Reviewer 2: I suggest replacing this paragraph with:

> Although the use of generics is taught in the core course, this section instead focuses on how, and when, to use them effectively. For developers of widely used libraries (internal or public), this material is particularly important.

Author: Applied manually.

to use them, and how is a big question in library development, though.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Introduction into advanced programming with generics in Rust
* Writing generic APIs
* Impact on compile time, size and runtime speed
* Useful generics patterns
* Patterns to avoid

Rust in C/C++ Environments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Rust is often deployed in existing products, especially withing or among

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rust is often deployed in existing products, especially within or among
```

solutions written in C/C++. This module explains binding efficiently
from C/C++ to Rust and from Rust to C/C++ codebases.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Rusts FFI (Foreign Function Interface)
* `unsafe`, as needed for FFI
* Safe binding, both manually and automatically
* Binding strategies
* Working with raw pointers and helping pointers
* Costs of boundary crossing
* Assessment of feasibility

Unsafe Rust
~~~~~~~~~~~

Rusts `unsafe` feature is sometimes necessary for speed optimisations or
implementation of special data structures. This module explains its
position and use in the language.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* The role of `unsafe`
* The scope of `unsafe`
* Do’s and Don’ts of unsafe Rust
* Introduction into support APIs, like non-null pointers
* Potential undefined behaviour arising from the use of `unsafe`

> * Checking unsafe Rust vor safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Checking unsafe Rust for safety
```

Rust Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module teaches advanced Rust testing techniques.

> In this module, attendees will learn: * Fuzzing of Rust applications *

Reviewer 2: Does this need to be broken into multiple lines?

Author: Yep, that's an error. Fixed.

details, but on system construction and usage of foreign code.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Useful libraries for many common usecases
* How to evaluate a library
* Componentising Rust projects
* Error handling at large
* Logging and tracing

Binary Size Optimisation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is meant for developers working on systems with constraints
on program size, such as switches or IoT gateways. It explains
techniques to keep the binary size of Rust applications small.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Compiler options to optimise for size over aggressive optimisation
* Programming techniques for smaller programs
* Tools to further reduce the size of resulting binaries

Rust Speed Optimisation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is meant for developers working on systems with high speed
demands. It explains techniques to test for performance and optimise for
speed.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Tools to analyse speed and memory consumption
* Programming techniques for faster programs
* ``Refactoring towards Speed'': futher deepening for optimising working
code bases

> * Optimising programs for better resource usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Optimising programs for specific resource usage needs
```

Rust for Networking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is meant for developers working on the networking layer. It
combines well with the ``Asynchronous and Concurrent Rust'' module.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Rusts concurrency safety features
* The Futures model
* Rust async/.await programming
* Available libraries and frameworks
* Specifics of Rusts I/O libraries

Asynchronous and Concurrent Rust
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is meant for developers interested in building highly
concurrent systems. It combines well with the ``Rust for Networking''
module.

In this module, attendees will learn:

* Rust threads vs. asynchronous tasks
* Communication and sharing between concurrent units of a program
* Effective memory safety features in concurrent applications
* Available libraries and frameworks

Cross Compilation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is meant for developers targeting many different
architectures.

In this module, attendees will learn:

> * Rusts cross-compile toolchain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Rust's cross-compile toolchain
```
